ticdc: add ticdc to pulsar doc (#14878)
pingcap/docs: ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-pulsar.md

### Changefeed config parameters

The following are examples of changefeed config parameters:

```toml
[sink]
# `dispatchers` is used to specify matching rules.
# Note: When the downstream MQ is Pulsar, if the routing rule for `partition` is not specified as any of `ts`, `index-value`, `table`, or `default`, it will be routed using the string you set as the key for each Pulsar message.
# For example, if you specify a routing rule as the string `code`, then all Pulsar messages that match that matcher will be routed with `code` as the key.
# dispatchers = [
#    {matcher = ['test1.*', 'test2.*'], topic = "Topic expression 1", partition = "ts" },
#    {matcher = ['test3.*', 'test4.*'], topic = "Topic expression 2", partition = "index-value" },
#    {matcher = ['test1.*', 'test5.*'], topic = "Topic expression 3", partition = "table"},
#    {matcher = ['test6.*'], partition = "default"},
#    {matcher = ['test7.*'], partition = "test123"}
# ]

# `protocol` is used to specify the format protocol for encoding messages.

> # When the downstream is Pulsar, only the canal-json protocol is supported.

Reviewer: 和其他地方的翻译保持一致

# protocol = "canal-json"

# The following parameters only take effect when the downstream is Pulsar.
[sink.pulsar-config]
# Authentication on the Pulsar server side is done using a token. Specify the value of the token.
authentication-token = "xxxxxxxxxxxxx"
# When you use a token for Pulsar server-side authentication, specify the path to the file where the token is located.
token-from-file="/data/pulsar/token-file.txt"
# Pulsar uses the basic account and password to authenticate the identity. Specify the account.
basic-user-name="root"
# Pulsar uses the basic account and password to authenticate the identity. Specify the password.
basic-password="password"
# The certificate path for Pulsar TLS encrypted authentication.
auth-tls-certificate-path="/data/pulsar/certificate"
# The private key path for Pulsar TLS encrypted authentication.
auth-tls-private-key-path="/data/pulsar/certificate.key"

> # The credential file path for Pulsar TLS encrypted authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Path to trusted certificate file of the Pulsar TLS encrypted authentication.
```

Reviewer: 和 ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-pulsar.md 里的翻译保持一致

tls-trust-certs-file-path="/data/pulsar/tls-trust-certs-file"
# Pulsar oauth2 issuer-url. For more information, see the Pulsar website: https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/2.10.x/client-libraries-go/#tls-encryption-and-authentication
oauth2.oauth2-issuer-url="https://xxxx.auth0.com"
# Pulsar oauth2 audience
oauth2.oauth2-audience="https://xxxx.auth0.com/api/v2/"
# Pulsar oauth2 private-key
oauth2.oauth2-private-key="/data/pulsar/privateKey"
# Pulsar oauth2 client-id
oauth2.oauth2-client-id="0Xx...Yyxeny"
# Pulsar oauth2 oauth2-scope
oauth2.oauth2-scope="xxxx"

> # The number of cached Pulsar producers in TiCDC. The value is 10240 by default. Each Pulsar producer corresponds to one topic. If you need to replicate more than the default number of topics, you need to increase the number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# The number of cached Pulsar producers in TiCDC. The value is 10240 by default. Each Pulsar producer corresponds to one topic. If the number of topics you need to replicate is larger than the default value, you need to increase the number.
```

Reviewer: 和 ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-pulsar.md 里的翻译保持一致

pulsar-producer-cache-size=10240
# Pulsar data compression method. No compression is used by default. Optional values are "lz4", "zlib", and "zstd".
compression-type=""
# The timeout for the Pulsar client to establish a TCP connection with the server. The value is 5 seconds by default.
connection-timeout=5
# The timeout for Pulsar clients to initiate operations such as creating and subscribing to a topic. The value is 30 seconds by default.
operation-timeout=30
# The maximum number of messages in a single batch for a Pulsar producer to send. The value is 1000 by default.
batching-max-messages=1000
# The interval at which Pulsar producer messages are saved for batching. The value is 10 milliseconds by default.
batching-max-publish-delay=10
# The timeout for a Pulsar producer to send a message. The value is 30 seconds by default.
send-timeout=30
```

### Best practice

> * You need to specify the `protocol` parameter when creating a changefeed. Currently only the `canal-json` protocol is supported for replicating data to Pulsar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You need to specify the `protocol` parameter when creating a changefeed. Currently, only the `canal-json` protocol is supported for replicating data to Pulsar.
```

    ```toml
    [sink.pulsar-config]
    # Pulsar oauth2 issuer-url. For more information, see the Pulsar website: https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/2.10.x/client-libraries-go/#oauth2-authentication
    oauth2.oauth2-issuer-url="https://xxxx.auth0.com"
    # Pulsar oauth2 audience
    oauth2.oauth2-audience="https://xxxx.auth0.com/api/v2/"
    # Pulsar oauth2 private-key
    oauth2.oauth2-private-key="/data/pulsar/privateKey"
    # Pulsar oauth2 client-id
    oauth2.oauth2-client-id="0Xx...Yyxeny"
    # Pulsar oauth2 oauth2-scope
    oauth2.oauth2-scope="xxxx"
    ```

## Customize the dispatching rules for topics and partitions in Pulsar Sink

### Matching rules for Matcher

Take the `dispatchers` configuration item in the following sample configuration file as an example:

```toml
[sink]
dispatchers = [
  {matcher = ['test1.*', 'test2.*'], topic = "Topic expression 1", partition = "ts" },
  {matcher = ['test3.*', 'test4.*'], topic = "Topic expression 2", partition = "index-value" },
  {matcher = ['test1.*', 'test5.*'], topic = "Topic expression 3", partition = "table"},
  {matcher = ['test6.*'], partition = "default"},
  {matcher = ['test7.*'], partition = "test123"}
]
```

> - The tables that match the matcher rule are dispatched according to the policy specified by the corresponding topic expression. For example, the table `test3.aa` is dispatched according to `Topic expression 2`, and the table `test5.aa` is dispatched according to `Topic expression 3`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The tables that match a matcher rule are dispatched according to the policy specified by the corresponding topic expression. For example, the table `test3.aa` is dispatched according to `Topic expression 2`, and the table `test5.aa` is dispatched according to `Topic expression 3`.
```

> - For a table that matches more than one matcher rule, the topic expression corresponding to the top matcher will take precedence. For example, the table `test1.aa` is dispatched according to `Topic expression 1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For a table that matches more than one matcher rule, it is dispatched according to the first matching topic expression. For example, the table `test1.aa` is dispatched according to `Topic expression 1`.
```

- For tables that do not match any matcher, the corresponding data change events are sent to the default topic specified in `-sink-uri`. For example, the table `test10.aa` is sent to the default topic.

> - For tables that match the matcher rule but do not have a topic dispatcher specified, the corresponding data changes are sent to the default topic specified in `-sink-uri`. For example, the table `test9.abc` is sent to the default topic.

Author: ```suggestion
- For tables that match the matcher rule but do not have a topic dispatcher specified, the corresponding data changes are sent to the default topic specified in `-sink-uri`. For example, the table `test6.abc` is sent to the default topic.
```

### Topic dispatcher

> A topic dispatcher is specified with `topic = "xxx"` and uses topic expressions to implement a flexible topic dispatching policy. It is recommended that the total number of topics be less than 1000.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use `topic = "xxx"` to specify a topic dispatcher and use topic expressions to implement flexible topic dispatching policies. It is recommended that the total number of topics be less than 1000.
```

Reviewer: align with the translation in https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/ticdc-sink-to-kafka#topic-dispatchers

> The basic pattern of a topic expression is `[prefix]{schema}[middle][{table}][suffix]`. The following are the meanings of each part:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The format of a topic expression is `[prefix]{schema}[middle][{table}][suffix]`. The following are the meanings of each part:
```

- `prefix`: Optional. Represents the prefix of the topic name.
- `{schema}`: Optional. Represents the database name.

> - `middle`: Optional. Represents the separator between a database and a table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `middle`: Optional. Represents the separator between a database name and a table name.
```

- `{table}`: Optional. Represents the table name.
- `suffix`: Optional. Represents the suffix of the topic name.

`prefix`, `middle`, and `suffix` only support uppercase and lowercase letters (`a-z`, `A-Z`), numbers (`0-9`), dots (`.`), underscores (`_`), and hyphens (`-`). `{schema}` and `{table}` must be lowercase. Placeholders such as `{Schema}` and `{TABLE}` that contain uppercase letters are invalid.

The following are some examples:

- `matcher = ['test1.table1', 'test2.table2'], topic = "hello_{schema}_{table}"`
    - Data change events corresponding to the table `test1.table1` are despatched to a topic named `hello_test1_table1`.
    - Data change events corresponding to the table `test2.table2` are despatched to a topic named `hello_test2_table2`.

- `matcher = ['test3.*', 'test4.*'], topic = "hello_{schema}_world"`
    - Data change events for all tables under `test3` are despatched to a topic named `hello_test3_world`.
    - Data change events for all tables under `test4` are despatched to a topic named `hello_test4_world`.

- `matcher = ['*.*'], topic = "{schema}_{table}"`

>     - For all tables that TiCDC listens on, they are despatched to separate topics according to the `databaseName_tableName` rule. For example, for table `test.account`, TiCDC despatches its data change log to a topic named `test_account`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - For all tables that TiCDC listens on, they are despatched to separate topics according to the `databaseName_tableName` rule. For example, for the table `test.account`, TiCDC despatches its data change log to a topic named `test_account`.
```

### Dispatch DDL events

#### Database-level DDL events

DDL statements such as `CREATE DATABASE` and `DROP DATABASE` that are not related to a specific table are called database-level DDL statements. Events corresponding to database-level DDL statements are dispatched to the default topic specified in `--sink-uri`.

#### Table-level DDL events

DDL statements such as `ALTER TABLE` and `CREATE TABLE` that are related to a specific table are called table-level DDL statements. Events corresponding to table-level DDL statements are dispatched to an appropriate topic according to the configuration of `dispatchers`.

For example, for a `dispatchers` configuration like `matcher = ['test.*'], topic = {schema}_{table}`, the DDL events are despatched as follows:

> - If a single table is involved in the DDL event, the DDL event is dispatched to the appropriate topic as is. For example, for the DDL event `DROP TABLE test.table1`, the event is dispatched to the topic named `test_table1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If a DDL event only involves a single table, the DDL event is dispatched to the appropriate topic as it is. For example, for the DDL event `DROP TABLE test.table1`, the event is dispatched to the topic named `test_table1`.
```

> - If the DDL event involves more than one table (`RENAME TABLE`, `DROP TABLE`, and `DROP VIEW` might all involve more than one table), the single DDL event is split into multiple ones and dispatched to appropriate topics. For example, for the DDL event `RENAME TABLE test.table1 TO test.table10, test.table2 TO test.table20`, the processing is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If a DDL event involves more than one table (`RENAME TABLE`, `DROP TABLE`, and `DROP VIEW` might all involve more than one table), the single DDL event is split into multiple ones and dispatched to appropriate topics. For example, for the DDL event `RENAME TABLE test.table1 TO test.table10, test.table2 TO test.table20`, the processing is as follows:
```

    - Dispatch the DDL event for `RENAME TABLE test.table1 TO test.table10` to a topic named `test_table1`.
    - Dispatch the DDL event for `RENAME TABLE test.table2 TO test.table20` to a topic named `test_table2`.

### Partition dispatcher

> Currently TiCDC only supports consumers to consume messages using the Exclusive subscription model, that is, each consumer can consume messages from all partitions in a topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, TiCDC only supports consumers to consume messages using the exclusive subscription model, that is, each consumer can consume messages from all partitions in a topic.
```

> You can specify a partition dispatcher with `partition = "xxx"`. The following partition dispatches are supported: `default`, `ts`, `index-value`, and `table`. If you fill in any other string, it will be passed through to the `key` of the message in the message sent to the Pulsar server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can specify a partition dispatcher with `partition = "xxx"`. The following partition dispatches are supported: `default`, `ts`, `index-value`, and `table`. If you fill in any other string, TiCDC will pass that string as the `key` of the message in the messages sent to the Pulsar server.
```
